---
layout: post
title: "What Do People Eat?"
---

## Common Foods/Meals and Customs

People often eat in groups together and food is a big part of the cultural identity shared among people. Breakfast,
lunch and dinner are all very important meals in Morocco, as it is in many cultures. Breakfast may consist of pastries,
Beghrir (Moroccan pancakes) tea, eggs, khobz (Moroccan bread), sfenj (donuts) and coffee. This meal is usually eaten
with family before the day starts. Some of these foods like sfenj and Rghaif are popular street foods. It is something
popular at cafes as well. Lunch is the largest meal of the day where families join together for a meal. Many shops close
for a few hours during the day in order to give people time to go home and have meals with their families. Lunch is a
three-course meal that consists of a salad, the main course and then a dessert. The salad is mixed greens with assorted
vegetables on top with chickpeas and dressing. The main course is couscous with bread, lamb and olives. Bread is very
common with every meal and is used to soak up sauces and anything that may be left on the plate. After lunch a dessert
of mint tea and almond cookies is served. Unlike western culture dinner in Morocco is quite late in the evening. Often
around eight or nine pm. Some of the foods served during dinner are couscous, bread, lamb, shawarma, tajines (a spicy
stew made of meal and vegetables), and brochettes (a spicy meatball).

Many restaurants cater to the tourists that visit and make dining and experience with a show rather than a simple meal.
People belly dance and live music will be playing. There is a rule that if the setting is more theatric the less
authentic and personal the food is. Hosting and feeding people is very popular and significant in Moroccan culture. When
people eat they have rules that are followed. It is proper etiquette to wash your hands before the meal and to not wipe
them until the meal is finished. Licking one’s fingers is considered very food and is impolite to the host. People enjoy
hosting and cooking authentic meals for guests. Food is very fresh and local. They are very old fashion in their growing
techniques and grow food in smaller quantities to maintain freshness.

Meat consumption is popular within Morocco with the exception of pork. The most common meat consumed is lamb and is
raised on small farms. Produce is picked by hand and is very fresh and free from a lot of chemicals. Everything in
Morocco is fresh because of the cultural expectation. Food carts always keep the freshest pastries out and keep only
what will be eaten out for the public. Vegetarians are likely to find a good amount of options, even though only a small
percentage of Moroccans are vegetarian.

## Tools Used In Moroccan Cooking

Some of the tools used in Moroccan cooking are the Tagine, a majmar, a couscoussier, and a berrad. A Tagine is a vessel
that is used for cooking meats and vegetables. It is a cone shaped vessel that holds in heat. A majmar is used with a
Tagine, it is used to hold in heat and hold burning charcoal. It is made of clay and helps keep things from overheating.
A couscoussier is a tool similar to a rice cooker that cooks couscous. It is three parts, a bowl inside of a bowl with a
lid. It essentially steams couscous in a more efficient way. This is popular for families as it cooks couscous in larger
quantities and can sit on the counter to cook. Lastly a berrad is used for tea. There are many variations of this. Some
are more for decorations and others for both décor and functionality. These teapots are different than western tea pots
as they have a little chamber for loose tea. This tool is brought out for every meal with guests and family to serve
tea. Morocco is known for mint tea especially and is served with dessert.

![](https://www.thespruceeats.com/thmb/s6a-XdVYa5JADXfj45yKlf503So=/2000x1125/smart/filters:no_upscale()/MoroccanChickenTagine-GettyImages-139833254-5934d44c3df78c08abc6c176.jpg)

<img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/715M6NkUVbL._AC_SL1500_.jpg" height="500px">

<img src="https://www.cdiscount.com/pdt2/1/6/3/1/700x700/neu8681438505163/rw/haut-gamme-couscoussier-vapeur-turbo-induction-pie.jpg" height="500px">

![](https://indabaxmorocco.github.io/img/break.jpg)

## Citations

Eating in Morocco - Lonely Planet. (n.d.). Retrieved June 12, 2020, from
<https://www.lonelyplanet.com/morocco/in-location/eating/a/nar/78206bc5-46b6-4136-ab32-3a8b18fe56a9/355491>

12 Essential Kitchen Tools for a Traditional Moroccan Meal ... (n.d.). Retrieved June 12, 2020, from
<https://www.saveur.com/moroccan-kitchen-tools/>
