---
layout: post
title: "Travel Itinerary"
author: "Anastacia Karabatsos"
subheader: "Part 4"
---

For this itinerary you will be traveling through four cities in two weeks. First you will start in Rabat and move south
to explore other cities including Fes, Casablanca, and El Jadida. This itinerary will cover the days 2-13 and will
consist of breakfast, lunch and dinner. While traveling this itinerary will give you transportation options best fitted
for each city. Most transportation is walking and rail to larger cities including the ones you will be traveling to and
from. Cars are not often a mode of transportation for tourists as it is more difficult to navigate and can be time
consuming.

For the first few days there will be a set of restaurants and cafes. These places are local to Moroccans and are a quiet
atmosphere with authentic food. For these locations it is best to walk to each destination.  Each meal is listed by
breakfast lunch and dinner.

## Day One - Rabat

Cafes Carrion

La Koutoubia

Golden Fish (formal dining)

Activity: Cultural Food Tour

## Day Two

Café La Galerie

Ty Potes

## Day Three

Les 3 Dou’soeurs

Resturant Surfa

Al Warda

Activity: Museum of Art and History

## Day Four

II Giardino

Le petit beur

Al Marsa

## Day Five - Casablanca

This will be a travel day and therefore be eating street food and cooking at home.

Restaurant Ifrane (a fast food style place)

Stop at Le Marche solidaire for basic grocery items like chicken, flour, produce and eggs and so forth.

Home meal:

### Ingredients

* 1/2 cup onion chopped
* 1 cup water
* 2 garlic cloves minced
* 2 Roma tomato cored and diced
* 1/4 cup peas frozen
* 3 carrots sliced
* 2 Tbsp olive oil
* 1 tsp curry
* 1 tsp chili powder
* 1 Tbsp fresh parsley chopped
* 1 tsp Kosher salt (paleo diet: sea salt)
* 3 lbs chicken whole roaster cut into pieces
* 1 lb potatoes (paleo diet: sweet potatoes) Peeled and sliced thin. Place in water to prevent browning until ready.

### Instructions

1. Peel and slice potatoes 1/4" Place potatoes in water to avoid browning while you cook the chicken in tagine.
2. On the bottom of the tagine dish place the onions, carrots, tomatoes, and garlic. Place chicken pieces on top and
   season with the spices. Sprinkle with the chopped parsley. Pour over the olive oil. Add roughly 1 cup of water.
3. Cover and cook over medium heat for about 1 hour. Check for doneness. The chicken should be tender and have an
   internal temperature of 165 degrees. You may have to remove some liquid as you go with a baster or ladle if it starts
   to run over the sides of the tagine base.
4. Drain potatoes and add them to the top of the tagine forming a circle. Cover and continue to cook for another 20
   minutes until the potatoes are soft. Add the peas and cook for an additional 5 minutes uncovered.
5. Serve with couscous* or rice.
6. I usually purchase the boxed couscous(gasp) from the ethnic section of my grocery store.
7. As a side note, this recipe can be easily adapted to be made in a crock pot. Cook until the chicken is fork tender.

Moroccan Chicken Tagine - Once Upon a Chef. (n.d.). Retrieved June 13, 2020, from
<https://www.onceuponachef.com/recipes/moroccan-chicken-tagine.html>

## Day Six

Agarta (café)

Meal at home: Couscous Salad

### Ingredients

* 2 tablespoons olive oil
* 1 medium red onion chopped
* 1 yellow bell pepper chopped
* 1 carrot chopped into cubes
* 2 cloves garlic minced
* salt & pepper to taste
* ½ teaspoon paprika
* ½ teaspoon ground coriander
* ¼ teaspoon turmeric
* ½ teaspoon celery salt
* ½ teaspoon ground cumin
* ⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon
* cayenne pepper optional, to taste
* 1 cup frozen peas
* 14oz chickpeas (garbanzo beans) drained
* 6 Peppadew Piquante peppers chopped, mild or hot
* 1½ cups chicken stock or vegetable stock
* A good handful fresh parsley chopped
* 1 cup instant couscous

### Instructions

1. In a medium-size skillet heat the oil over medium heat.

2. Add red onion, yellow pepper, and carrot sauté 10-15 minutes or until all the vegetables are your desired tenderness

3. Add the garlic, sauté another minute.

4. Mix in the salt & pepper, paprika, ground coriander, turmeric, celery salt, cumin ground cinnamon, and cayenne pepper
   (if using). Stir-fry until fragrant (about a minute).

5. Add the frozen peas and cook briefly. Stir in the piquante peppers and chickpeas.  Followed by the stock.

6. Add the chopped parsley and stir in the couscous.  Remove from heat and let stand 5 minutes or until liquid is
   absorbed.  Fluff and serve.

Moroccan Spiced Vegetable Couscous - Erren's Kitchen. (n.d.). Retrieved June 13, 2020, from
<https://www.errenskitchen.com/moroccan-spiced-vegetable-couscous/>

Dinner: Chicken from the evening before with a dessert from café

Dessert: Fratello (a café close to hotel)

## Day Seven

Iaroma café

Street food from Rick’s café a popular establishment for tourists

Dinner: Restaurant  Luigi sidi Maarouf (Italian)

## Day Eight

Paul (café)

Alba Salon de The

Delicesenvies (a hot tourist dessert place)

## Day Nine - Travel to El Jadida (rail)

Le Lakal

O Milks

Sel De Mer (dinner with a show)

Store to buy groceries is called Carrefour Market. It is a market inside a shopping mall with canned goods, prepackaged
meals and some produce and meat.

## Day Ten

O parc

Villa Les 7 Pains

Meal at home: Shawarma (Chicken)

* 2 lemons, juiced
* ½ cup plus 1 tablespoon olive oil
* 6 cloves garlic, peeled, smashed and minced
* 1 teaspoon kosher salt
* 2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper
* 2 teaspoons ground cumin
* 2 teaspoons paprika
* ½ teaspoon turmeric
* A pinch ground cinnamon
* Red pepper flakes, to taste
* 2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs
* 1 large red onion, peeled and quartered
* 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley

Oven-Roasted Chicken Shawarma Recipe - NYT Cooking. (n.d.). Retrieved June 13, 2020, from
<https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1017161-oven-roasted-chicken-shawarma>

## Day Eleven - Travel to Fes (Rail)

Cinema Cafe

Snack Malak

Nur Restaurant

Activity: Merzouga Desert Tour

## Day Twelve

M-touched (café)

To get ingredients go to the Talaa Kebira (produce, meat and spices)

Meal at home: Lamb made in Tajine

### Ingredients

* 4 pounds fat-trimmed boned lamb shoulder or other cut suitable for stewing, rinsed and cut into 1 1/2-inch chunks
* 2 onions (8 oz. each), peeled and thinly sliced
* 4 cloves garlic, peeled and minced
* 1 tablespoon each paprika and ground cumin
* 1 teaspoon each ground turmeric, ground cinnamon, and minced fresh ginger
* 1/2 teaspoon cayenne
* 1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom
* 2 1/2 cups fat-skimmed chicken broth
* 1 can (14 1/2 oz.) diced tomatoes
* 2 tablespoons tomato paste
* Salt and fresh-ground pepper
* Couscous
* 1/3 cup pitted kalamata olives
* 1/3 cup chopped fresh cilantro
* 1 lemon

### Instructions

1. Brown lamb. Discard all but 2 tablespoons fat from the pan.

2. Add onions and garlic to pan; stir often over medium heat until onions begin to get limp, 3 to 5 minutes. Add
   paprika, cumin, turmeric, cinnamon, ginger, cayenne, and cardamom; stir until very fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add
   broth, tomatoes (including juices), and tomato paste. Bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce heat, cover, and simmer,
   stirring occasionally, until lamb is tender when pierced, about 1 hour. Skim off and discard any fat. Add salt and
   pepper to taste.

3. On dinner plates or a large rimmed platter, mound couscous and form a well in the center. With a slotted spoon,
   transfer lamb and vegetables to well. Measure pan juices; if less than 3 cups, add water to make that amount, return
   to pan, and bring to a boil over high heat. Add salt to taste. Pour juices into a bowl and pass to add to taste.
   Scatter olives and cilantro over lamb; garnish as desired (see notes).

4. No-mess browning

5. Place meat in a heavy-bottomed 5- to 6-quart pan. Add 1/2 cup water; cover and bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce
   heat and simmer briskly over medium heat until meat is gray on the outside and has rendered juices and fat, 15 to 20
   minutes.

6. Uncover pan, increase heat to high, and stir often until most of the liquid has evaporated, 15 to 20 minutes. Reduce
   heat to medium-high and stir often until meat juices have caramelized and darkened and meat has browned in the
   rendered fat, about 5 minutes longer. If drippings and the brown film on pan begin to scorch, reduce heat to medium.

Moroccan Lamb Tagine Recipe \| MyRecipes. (n.d.). Retrieved June 13, 2020, from <https://www.myrecipes.com/recipe/moroccan-lamb-tagine>

Dessert: Cookies from Meskas

## Day Thirteen

Café Restaurant Al Oud

Restaurant Ouliya

La Maison Bleue

Activity: Pottery and Ceramics workshop
