---
layout: post
title: "Where do People in Morocco Eat?"
author: "Anastacia Karabatsos"
---
## Home Gardens

People in Morocco often eat fresh fruits and vegetables that are purchased rather than grown at home. Many people have
gardens; however, the plants are often for decorative reason rather than for consumption. Plants and agriculture is very
lush in Morocco and is very important to the people. Most villages have smaller farms that contribute to the need of
food in the community, rather than people doing it themselves. Moroccans are known for using the freshest ingredients
and take a lot of time to prepare meals. Part of the time is going to the markets and getting ingredients. Markets are
small rather than large in Morocco.

![](https://gardentoursmorocco.files.wordpress.com/2011/12/majorelle-gardens-cactus.jpg)

## Grocery Stores

Compared to the United State, Morocco does not have as many large grocery stores like Kroger or Target. People often get
food from smaller markets that can be found in each village. They are small to keep food fresher and reduce food waste.
There are places in villages that are small stores rather than booths and even they are much smaller and would be
similar to convenient stores in the United States. They keep similar food to the United States including breads, meats
and produce. Clothing and items like that are often found in markets around the village rather than in big stores. There
are a few large store including in Fez and that is where people stock up on things they do not get in market like canned
goods and prepackaged snacks. These grocery stores also carry more western food like cereals and cookies similar to
those in western culture like Oreos.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/0*VIPnClnHZ30j927V.jpg)

## Farmers Market

 Food in Morocco is fresh because it is kept at small batches. This is very similar to farmers market in the United
 States. These markets run all day and run every day of the week instead of one day a week for a few hours. These
 markets are where people can purchase spices, produce, clothing and other goods. There is a wide variety of what is
 sold here. Many items are personally made like tajine and teapots, however, there are also places to buy goods like
 cosmetics and iron goods. These are very good places for tourists to get authentic souvenirs from Morocco.
 
![](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/Travel/Destinations/Africa/Morocco/Marrakech/souks-marrakech-shopping-guide.jpg)

## Street Food

Street food is very popular in many parts of the world including Morocco. A large part of the cuisine is made perfectly
for street food. These places can be found in market and offers authentic Moroccan food while out and about. Foods that
can be found are stenj (Moroccan donut), Shwarma (a meat and vegetable wrap), chebakia (a rose shaped pastry made of
dough fried and drizzled with honey and rosweater), and msemmen (a bread like pancake topped with honey and butter or
meat and herbs. Similar to food carts in Portland Oregon, they are small establishments that offer hot food that is made
when ordered. Ingredients are often local and represent the local area and what people eat.

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/proxy/w1OiPLN8bEffny5zWM58_R56GmLythVxNUOCwUbEURx2pDuMXmAN9og0phaxyZA6XP5KxTVygJ4V0q_CiLZCCB_mZuRhNrSvyxhWSeoi2u0jNOpU1eAw2XdzoqfMqlPEg)

## Fast Food

Morocco does have a market for fast food. Popular chains can be found in Morocco including McDonalds, KFC and Pizza Hut.
McDonalds was one of the first fast food establishments to boom in Morocco and has numerous locations all over the
globe. The reason for such a boom in Morocco is that it creates a sense of familiarity for travelers. On signs the
McDonalds logo is in Arabic because most speak Arabic in Morocco. Menu items are similar to western McDonalds with some
different items like croquettes, pita wraps, donuts and burgers without bacon. Most fast food places are food stands in
market and are more homemade compared to traditional fast food in western culture.

![](https://freephotooftheday.clientk.com/wp02/wp-content/uploads/2007/06/mcdonalds-marrakech-morocco-mcarabia-1.jpg)

## Citations

What Kind of Plants Grow In Morocco? â€“ WorldAtlas. (n.d.). Retrieved June 8, 2020, from <https://www.worldatlas.com/articles/what-plants-grow-in-morocco.html>

Moroccan groceries \| moroccan foods online \| moroccan ... (n.d.). Retrieved June 8, 2020, from <http://www.efooddepot.com/ethnics/Moroccan.html>

The Most Charming Markets in Marrakesh. (n.d.). Retrieved June 9, 2020, from <https://theculturetrip.com/africa/morocco/articles/the-most-charming-markets-in-marrakesh/>

The Best Street Food You Must Try In Marrakech, Morocco. (n.d.). Retrieved June 9, 2020, from <https://theculturetrip.com/africa/morocco/articles/the-best-street-food-in-marrakech/>

Fast Food in Morocco \| Market Research Report \| Euromonitor. (n.d.). Retrieved June 9, 2020, from <https://www.euromonitor.com/fast-food-in-morocco/report>
