---
layout: post
title: "History, Geography, Religion, and Philosophy"
---

![Flag of Morocco](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/2c/Flag_of_Morocco.svg)

Hello! Welcome to my Morocco blog! My name is Anastasia Karabatsos and this blog will a walkthrough of the culture,
history, and food of Morocco.

## History

At around 1,000 BCE people known as Phoenicians came to Morocco from what is now Lebanon. They settled and profited off
of trading which led to the structure of the city Carthage, which is now Tunisia. At this time Berber tribe was
established in the kingdom of Mauritania. In 681 the Arabs had raided Morocco which lead to the country following the
Islamic faith. Soon after Morocco was split into kingdoms. Later on, in 1912 Morocco was taken over by the French and
became a protectorate. In 1944 there was a draft made by the people to gain independence and in 1947 the Sultan declared
in favor of the people. Once the Sultan returned in 1953 Morocco became independent again. In more recent years
constitutions have been made and changed in order to keep peace with the people after riots took place in Casablanca due
to political disagreements. The most recent constitution was written up in 2011. Throughout history Morocco has been
fought over by many countries due to the location. The wide range of coast has made Morocco a very valuable country when
it comes to sea ports and ability to get there.

![History picture](https://r9m8n7i9.stackpathcdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/07/agadir-at-summer-Morocco9.png)

## Geography

Morocco borders the country Algeria and the Atlantic Ocean. Morocco has a wide variety of climates. For the most part
the climate is very tropical and gets up to 95 degrees Fahrenheit and as low as 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Climate is mostly
dry, and rain is most common during the months between November and March. Beaches are very warm with a cool breeze
which is beneficial for those who travel there. Morocco is known for pine wood, oak wood and cedar. Agriculture includes
fruits, vegetables, coffee, tea, and wheat. Some of those items are oranges, potatoes, tomatoes, oil from olives,
strawberries, melons, and barley. They also raise cattle for milk and raise sheep. Most of the people in Morocco follow
the Islamic faith which believes that eating pork is wrong, therefore it is not a large part of their farming practices.
Other meat and animal consumption are prohibited in their culture, however.

![Geography picture](https://66.media.tumblr.com/04d0eb9317014d10f53ef07d1fec436e/tumblr_njs1egZAr11qghc1jo1_640.jpg)

## Religion

Due to Morocco being taken over by France they have a background with the catholic church in their culture even though
most Moroccans are Islamic. Morocco was founded by Arabs which follow the faith of Islam. Islam is the faith in which
believes they there is only a God and no Jesus. Muhammad was the prophet that delivered the word of God (also addressed
as Allah). Their book of faith is the Quran. They follow the five pillars of Islam which is Shahada, Salat (prayers),
Charity, fasting and Pilgrimage. These five components are how people express their faith while also contributing to
those around them. Islamic faith is not a missionary faith, meaning they do not set out to convert others, this is
common in the Christian faith. They are encouraged to share the word of Allah, however. People of the Islamic faith in
Morocco follow very seriously. If someone is unable to take part in one of the five pillars there are other options. For
instance, if someone is unable to fast because they are elder, pregnant, ill or menstruating, they will pay a tax. That
tax is used to help those who cannot afford food and the amount of the tax varies from person to person and what they
are able to contribute. This is mostly common during Ramadan, a month long fast that goes from sunup to sundown.

![Religion picture](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/proxy/B1sGQ1pw8uul1uw7cAd5GBH35Gtx4-liJIxg1m57jP9h5RPIQPN3BpgT9qlp8L5cMXL_r1qsrR-3LAJ2JnvwdLJWZecnA80ggRqtifosR2-NAmwHSfYFG_-4bK5Rdb2mTWj4ZvT6iXOgRpv_RxwLjLLeO0shVtHOpPFz5Q)

## Philosophy

Gender roles and food culture often coincide. The role of women is strongly influenced by the Islamic faith. Women have
a role to marry and have children while taking care of the home and children. In Islamic faith women in the Quran are
often submissive and this gender roles is shown through the culture due to Morocco having a high number of individuals
who follow that faith. Women are the ones who learn to cook and often pass that tradition down to their children. Many
recipes for special events are made by mothers and grandmothers as a special tradition. Though Morocco produces food and
other livestock practices, they are also known for their home-made things. This includes, jewelry, rugs, leather goods
and special tea pots. Women make goods to sell and use. Tea is very popular in Morocco, especially mint tea, which is
made in a special tea pot that does not use bags. Though the Islamic law states that men and women are equal, women have
very different roles compared to men. Men are the ones who leave home to make money and return. They are responsible for
caring for the family and home monetarily.

![Philosophy picture](https://www.oliverstravels.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/traditional-moroccan-tajine-of-chicken-with-dried-fruits-and-spices-picture-id1143191120.jpg)

## Citations

Morocco country profile - BBC News. (n.d.). Retrieved June 11, 2020, from <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-14121438>

What is the weather, climate and geography like in Morocco. (n.d.). Retrieved June 12, 2020, from
<https://www.worldtravelguide.net/guides/africa/morocco/weather-climate-geography/>

Teachers Guide - Muslims | Teacher Center | FRONTLINE | PBS. (n.d.). Retrieved June 12, 2020, from
<https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/teach/muslims/beliefs.html>

Womenâ€™s rights in Morocco: Balancing domestic and ... (n.d.). Retrieved June 12, 2020, from
<https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/menasource/women-s-rights-in-morocco-balancing-domestic-and-international-law/>
